**Table of Contents**

- [Innovative cultures](#innovative-cultures)
  - [Dealing with failures](#dealing-with-failures)
    - [Failures x incompetence](#failures-x-incompetence)
    - [Productive and unproductive failures](#productive-and-unproductive-failures)
  - [Experimentation with discipline](#experimentation-with-discipline)
  - [Creating a psychologic safe environment](#creating-a-psychologic-safe-environment)
  - [Collaboration x consensus](#collaboration-x-consensus)
  - [Being flat but providing strong leadership](#being-flat-but-providing-strong-leadership)
- [Organizational culture](#organizational-culture)


# Innovative cultures

## Dealing with failures

### Failures x incompetence

There are times when even the biggest companies in the world fail. The difference is that they have no room for incompetence, which makes the chances of the [failure being productive](#productive-and-unproductive-failures) higher. When making business decisions as a leader, it's always important to make sure your employees are capable of doing certain tasks to minimize mistakes that can result in failure. But even if the failure happens, the capacity for improvement will be higher if provided with the necessary knowledge and adaptability.

### Productive and unproductive failures

- Productive failures: Knowledge acquired after is more valuable than the consequences;
- Unproductive failures: Knowledge acquired after is more valuable than the consequences;
  
## Experimentation with discipline

It's very important to make experiments when creating an innovative culture. Although, to maximize the gain in those, it's fundamental to have discipline. First, one needs to ask himself if the hypothesis to be studied provides valuable information if confirmed. It's also important to abandon pride when experimenting. If necessary, kill or lose projects;

## Creating a psychologic safe environment

If the ambience is safe for making criticisms despite one's position, the flow if ideas is much more fluid leading to much more positive improvement;

## Collaboration x consensus

The consensus of the team is important for making important decisions. However, to make the process of decision making more agile, the **accountability** for decisions is important. When one makes a decision, it needs to be aware and hold accountability for it's consequences. That way, the work becomes more fluid and leads to more time to deal with more important decisions;

## Being flat but providing strong leadership

The autonomy of employees makes for very positive gains: more adaptability, better flow of ideas and solution paradigms. But, being flat always needs to be accompanied by a strong leadership, to keep the people working in the right direction;

# Organizational culture

An organizational culture are the the shared values, beliefs, behaviors and customs that shape the organization environment;

